Add callback API to oe_log_message(). (#3466)
openenclave/openenclave: samples/log_callback/README.md

# oe_log_message Callback Sample

> This sample demonstrates how to customize the log function through the new callback feature of oe_log_message().

Reviewer: I would just discard new.

```suggestion
This sample demonstrates how to customize the log function through the callback feature of oe_log_message().
```

> There are several problems with the current logging mechanism that prevent end users from making full use of logging:

Reviewer: I don't think we need to explain things here, which are already part of the design doc. I'd suggest remove line 4-10, just directly start with Developer Experience that explains how the callback work.

Alternatively, you could specify the version of OE. For example,

This sample demonstrates how to customize the log function through the new callback feature of oe_log_message() introduced in v0.12.

There are several problems with the current logging mechanism (prior to v0.12) that prevent end users from making full use of logging:
...

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, yes it is not good to put it in sample. Removed.

- Messages can't be redirected to different destinations on demand.
- There is no method for application developers to customize messages.
- It doesn't have a mechanism to communicate between the host application and oe_log_message() such that application developers can't pass more information to the message function.

The callback API is supposed to solve such problems.

## Developer Experience

By making use of the callback API of oe_log_message(), a developer can customize the output of the log message:

> - The output destination can be stdout, stderr, or any specified files that the destination is adjustable during runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The output destination can be stdout, stderr or any file. The destination is adjustable during runtime.
```

- The message can be adjusted according to the log level.

> - The developer can get at least as much information about the message as the internal API. For example, log time, enclave or host side, and log level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The developer gets the following information- log time, enclave or host side, and log level.
```

should be converted to a string. Here the printing format "%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S%z" is a good format that it follows the ISO 8601 rules.
After that, the printing destination is chosen, based on the log level. In principle,
it's better not to mix low priority messages with high priority messages lest important messages be flooded by tedious messages.
Finally, all the information and messages will be written to the specified destination.

To pass in the specified log file "./oe_out.txt", the file must be opened before registration.
In this case the context is used as the logging destination. Besides that, context can be casted back as any desired type, since type of context is "void*".
```
    FILE* out_file = fopen("./oe_out.txt", "w");
    oe_log_set_callback((void*)out_file, customized_log);

```
When oe_log_message() is called, the most recently registered log function will be invoked. Obviously, if it is registered before starting the enclave, all the logs are affected.
In the developer's expectation, log messages with level equal or greater than OE_LOG_LEVEL_WARNING will be written to "./oe_out.txt", and others will be written to "stderr". The typical output is as following:
```

> alvin@wechen3-u18-2:~/openenclave/build/samples/log_callback$ cat oe_out.txt

Reviewer 2: Maybe remove your name and id, just having $cat oe_out.txt is enough.

Author: Removed, thanks!

# oe_log_message Callback Sample

> This sample demonstrates how to customize log function through the new callback feature of oe_log_message().

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This sample demonstrates how to customize the log function through the new callback feature of oe_log_message().
```

There are several problems with the current logging mechanism that prevent end users from making full use of logging:

> - Message can't be redirected to different destinations on demand.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Messages can't be redirected to different destinations on demand.
```

> - Lacking of a method for end users to customize messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- There is no method for application developers to customize messages.
```

> - It doesn't have a mechanism to communicate between the host application and oe_log_message() such that end users can't pass more information to the message function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- It doesn't have a mechanism to communicate between the host application and oe_log_message() such that application developers can't pass more information to the message function.
```

The callback API is supposed to solve such problems.

> ## User Experience

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Developer Experience
```

> By making use of the callback API of oe_log_message(), a user can customize the output of the log message:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By making use of the callback API of oe_log_message(), a developer can customize the output of the log message:
```

- The output destination can be stdout, stderr, or any specified files that the destination is adjustable during runtime.
- The message can be adjusted according to the log level.

> - The user can get at least as much information about the message as the internal API. For example, log time, enclave or host side, and log level.
> Finally, the user can define a function to customize the log message and can designate the funtion to process all the log messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The developer can get at least as much information about the message as the internal API. For example, log time, enclave or host side, and log level.
Finally, the developer can define a function to customize the log message and can designate the function to process all the log messages.
```

> ## Changes

Reviewer 3: I don't think this section is needed in a samples readme.  Only in the design doc.  Recommend removing.

Author: Removed, Thanks!

There are new header files added to support the new callback feature.
### log.h
```
typedef enum _oe_log_level
{
    OE_LOG_LEVEL_NONE = 0,
    OE_LOG_LEVEL_FATAL,
    OE_LOG_LEVEL_ERROR,
    OE_LOG_LEVEL_WARNING,
    OE_LOG_LEVEL_INFO,
    OE_LOG_LEVEL_VERBOSE,
    OE_LOG_LEVEL_MAX
} oe_log_level_t;

extern const char* oe_log_level_strings[OE_LOG_LEVEL_MAX];
```
### trace.h
```
typedef void (*oe_log_callback_t)(
    void* context,
    bool is_enclave,
    struct tm* t,
    long int usecs,
    oe_log_level_t level,
    uint64_t host_thread_id,
    const char* message);
oe_result_t oe_log_set_callback(void* context, oe_log_callback_t callback);
```
Since log.h is included by trace.h, the end user can perform customized logging through including trace.h.

## How to customize the log

> To customize the log, the user needs to prepare a customized log processing function "customized_log()":

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To customize the log, the developer needs to prepare a customized log processing function "customized_log()":
```

```
void customized_log(
    void* context,
    bool is_enclave,

>     struct tm* t,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    const struct tm* t,
```

    long int usecs,
    oe_log_level_t level,
    uint64_t host_thread_id,
    const char* message)
{
    char time[25];
    strftime(time, sizeof(time), "%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S%z", t);

    FILE* log_file = NULL;
    if (level >= OE_LOG_LEVEL_WARNING)
    {
        log_file = (FILE*)context;
    }
    else
    {
        log_file = stderr;
    }

    fprintf(
        log_file,
        "%s.%06ld, %s, %s, %lu, %s",
        time,
        usecs,
        (is_enclave ? "E" : "H"),
        oe_log_level_strings[level],
        host_thread_id,
        message);
}
```
which must follow the function type "*oe_log_callback_t". All these parameters are some information about logging,

> but the user has the full control to make use of them. The timestamp information, which is not printable,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
but the developer has the full control to make use of them. The timestamp information, which is not printable,
```

should be converted to a string. Here the printing format "%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S%z" is a good format that it follows the ISO 8601 rules.
After that, the printing destination is chosen, based on the log level. In principle,
it's better not to mix low priority messages with high priority messages lest important messages be flooded by tedious messages.
Finally, all the information and messages will be written to the specified destination.

To pass in the specified log file "./oe_out.txt", the file must be opened before registration.
In this case the context is used as the logging destination. Besides that, context can be casted back as any desired type, since type of context is "void*".
```
    FILE* out_file = fopen("./oe_out.txt", "w");
    oe_log_set_callback((void*)out_file, customized_log);

```
When oe_log_message() is called, the most recently registered log function will be invoked. Obviously, if it is registered before starting the enclave, all the logs are affected.

> In the user's expectation, log messages with level equal or greater than OE_LOG_LEVEL_WARNING will be writen to "./oe_out.txt", and others will be writen to "stderr". The typical output is as following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the developer's expectation, log messages with level equal or greater than OE_LOG_LEVEL_WARNING will be written to "./oe_out.txt", and others will be written to "stderr". The typical output is as following:
```

```
alvin@wechen3-u18-2:~/openenclave/build/samples/log_callback$ cat oe_out.txt
2020-08-19T08:48:37-0700.025528, H, INFO, 7f079bd8bb80, Processor supports AVX instructions [/home/alvin/openenclave/host/sgx/linux/xstate.c:_is_xgetbv_supported:33]
alvin@wechen3-u18-2:~/openenclave/build/samples/log_callback$
```

## Build and run

Note that there are two different build systems supported, one using GNU Make and
`pkg-config`, the other using CMake.

### CMake

This uses the CMake package provided by the Open Enclave SDK.

```bash
cd log_callback
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make run
```

### GNU Make

```bash
cd log_callback
make build
make run
```

#### Note

> log_callback sample can run under Open Enclave simulation mode.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The log_callback sample can run under Open Enclave simulation mode.
```

> To run the switchless sample in simulation mode from the command like, use the following:

Reviewer 3: This isn't the "switchless" sample

Author: Fixed. Thanks for all the suggestions and pointing out the error!
